SECURITY_GUIDE.md, before:

# Security Guide

## 🔒 **Security Overview**

This document outlines the security measures implemented in the SmartQ LaunchPad application to protect against common vulnerabilities and ensure data protection.

## 🚨 **Critical Security Issues Fixed**

### **1. Hardcoded API Keys (RESOLVED)**
- **Issue**: Supabase keys were hardcoded in source code
- **Fix**: Moved to environment variables with validation
- **Impact**: Prevents unauthorized access to database

### **2. Debug Information Exposure (RESOLVED)**
- **Issue**: Console logs exposed sensitive data in production
- **Fix**: Implemented conditional logging based on environment
- **Impact**: Prevents information leakage in production

### **3. Environment Variable Protection (RESOLVED)**
- **Issue**: Missing .env file protection
- **Fix**: Updated .gitignore and created secure examples
- **Impact**: Prevents accidental commit of secrets

## 🛡️ **Security Measures Implemented**

### **Environment Variables**
```bash
# Required for production
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key_here
VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_google_maps_api_key_here

# Security controls
VITE_ENABLE_DEBUG_LOGS=false
VITE_ENABLE_AUDIT_LOGS=true
```

### **Input Validation & Sanitization**
- **XSS Prevention**: HTML entity encoding for user inputs
- **Email Validation**: Regex-based email format validation
- **UUID Validation**: Proper UUID format checking
- **Input Sanitization**: Automatic cleaning of user inputs

### **Content Security Policy (CSP)**
```typescript
CSP: {
  'default-src': ["'self'"],
  'script-src': ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
  'style-src': ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
  'img-src': ["'self'", "data:", "https:"],
  'connect-src': ["'self'", "https://*.supabase.co", "https://*.googleapis.com"],
  'frame-src': ["'self'"],
  'object-src': ["'none'"],
  'base-uri': ["'self'"],
  'form-action': ["'self'"]
}
```

### **Session Security**
- **Storage Key**: Unique, non-predictable session storage key
- **Session Timeout**: 30-day maximum session duration
- **Secure Storage**: LocalStorage with proper cleanup

### **API Security**
- **Rate Limiting**: 100 requests per 15-minute window
- **Request Timeout**: 30-second maximum request duration
- **Retry Limits**: Maximum 3 retry attempts
- **HTTPS Only**: All external connections use HTTPS

## 🔐 **Database Security**

### **Row Level Security (RLS)**
- **User Isolation**: Users can only access their own data
- **Role-based Access**: Admin, Ops Manager, Deployment Engineer roles
- **Policy Enforcement**: Automatic policy application on all tables

### **Audit Logging**
- **Change Tracking**: All database modifications logged
- **User Attribution**: Complete audit trail with user identification
- **Timestamp Logging**: Precise timing of all changes
- **Before/After Values**: Complete change history

## 🚫 **Security Best Practices**

### **For Developers**
1. **Never commit secrets** to version control
2. **Use environment variables** for all sensitive configuration
3. **Validate all user inputs** before processing
4. **Implement proper error handling** without exposing internals
5. **Use HTTPS** for all external communications
6. **Regular security audits** of dependencies

### **For Administrators**
1. **Rotate API keys** regularly
2. **Monitor audit logs** for suspicious activity
3. **Limit admin access** to necessary personnel only
4. **Regular security updates** of all dependencies
5. **Backup security configurations** securely

### **For Users**
1. **Use strong passwords** and enable 2FA if available
2. **Log out** when using shared devices
3. **Report suspicious activity** immediately
4. **Keep personal information** minimal and necessary

## 🔍 **Security Monitoring**

### **Log Analysis**
- **Error Logs**: Monitor for unusual error patterns
- **Access Logs**: Track user access patterns
- **Audit Logs**: Review all configuration changes
- **Performance Logs**: Monitor for unusual system behavior

### **Alert System**
- **Failed Login Attempts**: Multiple failed authentication
- **Unusual Access Patterns**: Access from new locations/times
- **Configuration Changes**: Modifications to security settings
- **System Errors**: Unusual error patterns

## 🚨 **Incident Response**

### **Security Breach Protocol**
1. **Immediate Response**: Isolate affected systems
2. **Assessment**: Determine scope and impact
3. **Containment**: Prevent further damage
4. **Investigation**: Root cause analysis
5. **Recovery**: Restore secure operations
6. **Post-mortem**: Document lessons learned

### **Contact Information**
- **Security Team**: security@smartq.com
- **Emergency Contact**: +1-XXX-XXX-XXXX
- **Escalation**: CTO for critical issues

## 📋 **Security Checklist**

### **Pre-deployment**
- [ ] All secrets moved to environment variables
- [ ] Debug logging disabled in production
- [ ] Input validation implemented
- [ ] CSP headers configured
- [ ] HTTPS enforced
- [ ] Rate limiting enabled

### **Post-deployment**
- [ ] Security monitoring active
- [ ] Audit logging functional
- [ ] Access controls tested
- [ ] Backup procedures verified
- [ ] Incident response plan ready

## 🔄 **Regular Security Tasks**

### **Weekly**
- Review error logs for patterns
- Check for suspicious access
- Update security dependencies

### **Monthly**
- Rotate API keys
- Review user access permissions
- Security configuration audit

### **Quarterly**
- Full security assessment
- Penetration testing
- Security policy review

## 📚 **Additional Resources**

- [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [Supabase Security](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/security)
- [React Security Best Practices](https://reactjs.org/docs/security.html)
- [Vite Security](https://vitejs.dev/guide/security.html)

## 📞 **Support**

For security-related questions or concerns:
1. **Check this guide** for common issues
2. **Review security logs** for specific problems
3. **Contact security team** for urgent issues
4. **Submit security reports** through proper channels

---

**Last Updated**: December 8, 2025  
**Security Version**: 1.0.0  
**Next Review**: January 8, 2026

Commit message:

Remove Google Maps integration, flatten header styling, fix card visibility and center alignment, optimize CSS code size

SECURITY_GUIDE.md, after:

# Security Guide

## 🔒 **Security Overview**

This document outlines the security measures implemented in the SmartQ LaunchPad application to protect against common vulnerabilities and ensure data protection.

## 🚨 **Critical Security Issues Fixed**

### **1. Hardcoded API Keys (RESOLVED)**
- **Issue**: Supabase keys were hardcoded in source code
- **Fix**: Moved to environment variables with validation
- **Impact**: Prevents unauthorized access to database

### **2. Debug Information Exposure (RESOLVED)**
- **Issue**: Console logs exposed sensitive data in production
- **Fix**: Implemented conditional logging based on environment
- **Impact**: Prevents information leakage in production

### **3. Environment Variable Protection (RESOLVED)**
- **Issue**: Missing .env file protection
- **Fix**: Updated .gitignore and created secure examples
- **Impact**: Prevents accidental commit of secrets

## 🛡️ **Security Measures Implemented**

### **Environment Variables**
```bash
# Required for production
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key_here
# LocationIQ is used for geocoding through Supabase Edge Functions
# No external API keys needed for this project

# Security controls
VITE_ENABLE_DEBUG_LOGS=false
VITE_ENABLE_AUDIT_LOGS=true
```

### **Input Validation & Sanitization**
- **XSS Prevention**: HTML entity encoding for user inputs
- **Email Validation**: Regex-based email format validation
- **UUID Validation**: Proper UUID format checking
- **Input Sanitization**: Automatic cleaning of user inputs

### **Content Security Policy (CSP)**
```typescript
CSP: {
  'default-src': ["'self'"],
  'script-src': ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
  'style-src': ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'"],
  'img-src': ["'self'", "data:", "https:"],
  'connect-src': ["'self'", "https://*.supabase.co"],
  'frame-src': ["'self'"],
  'object-src': ["'none'"],
  'base-uri': ["'self'"],
  'form-action': ["'self'"]
}
```

### **Session Security**
- **Storage Key**: Unique, non-predictable session storage key
- **Session Timeout**: 30-day maximum session duration
- **Secure Storage**: LocalStorage with proper cleanup

### **API Security**
- **Rate Limiting**: 100 requests per 15-minute window
- **Request Timeout**: 30-second maximum request duration
- **Retry Limits**: Maximum 3 retry attempts
- **HTTPS Only**: All external connections use HTTPS

## 🔐 **Database Security**

### **Row Level Security (RLS)**
- **User Isolation**: Users can only access their own data
- **Role-based Access**: Admin, Ops Manager, Deployment Engineer roles
- **Policy Enforcement**: Automatic policy application on all tables

### **Audit Logging**
- **Change Tracking**: All database modifications logged
- **User Attribution**: Complete audit trail with user identification
- **Timestamp Logging**: Precise timing of all changes
- **Before/After Values**: Complete change history

## 🚫 **Security Best Practices**

### **For Developers**
1. **Never commit secrets** to version control
2. **Use environment variables** for all sensitive configuration
3. **Validate all user inputs** before processing
4. **Implement proper error handling** without exposing internals
5. **Use HTTPS** for all external communications
6. **Regular security audits** of dependencies

### **For Administrators**
1. **Rotate API keys** regularly
2. **Monitor audit logs** for suspicious activity
3. **Limit admin access** to necessary personnel only
4. **Regular security updates** of all dependencies
5. **Backup security configurations** securely

### **For Users**
1. **Use strong passwords** and enable 2FA if available
2. **Log out** when using shared devices
3. **Report suspicious activity** immediately
4. **Keep personal information** minimal and necessary

## 🔍 **Security Monitoring**

### **Log Analysis**
- **Error Logs**: Monitor for unusual error patterns
- **Access Logs**: Track user access patterns
- **Audit Logs**: Review all configuration changes
- **Performance Logs**: Monitor for unusual system behavior

### **Alert System**
- **Failed Login Attempts**: Multiple failed authentication
- **Unusual Access Patterns**: Access from new locations/times
- **Configuration Changes**: Modifications to security settings
- **System Errors**: Unusual error patterns

## 🚨 **Incident Response**

### **Security Breach Protocol**
1. **Immediate Response**: Isolate affected systems
2. **Assessment**: Determine scope and impact
3. **Containment**: Prevent further damage
4. **Investigation**: Root cause analysis
5. **Recovery**: Restore secure operations
6. **Post-mortem**: Document lessons learned

### **Contact Information**
- **Security Team**: security@smartq.com
- **Emergency Contact**: +1-XXX-XXX-XXXX
- **Escalation**: CTO for critical issues

## 📋 **Security Checklist**

### **Pre-deployment**
- [ ] All secrets moved to environment variables
- [ ] Debug logging disabled in production
- [ ] Input validation implemented
- [ ] CSP headers configured
- [ ] HTTPS enforced
- [ ] Rate limiting enabled

### **Post-deployment**
- [ ] Security monitoring active
- [ ] Audit logging functional
- [ ] Access controls tested
- [ ] Backup procedures verified
- [ ] Incident response plan ready

## 🔄 **Regular Security Tasks**

### **Weekly**
- Review error logs for patterns
- Check for suspicious access
- Update security dependencies

### **Monthly**
- Rotate API keys
- Review user access permissions
- Security configuration audit

### **Quarterly**
- Full security assessment
- Penetration testing
- Security policy review

## 📚 **Additional Resources**

- [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [Supabase Security](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/security)
- [React Security Best Practices](https://reactjs.org/docs/security.html)
- [Vite Security](https://vitejs.dev/guide/security.html)

## 📞 **Support**

For security-related questions or concerns:
1. **Check this guide** for common issues
2. **Review security logs** for specific problems
3. **Contact security team** for urgent issues
4. **Submit security reports** through proper channels

---

**Last Updated**: December 8, 2025  
**Security Version**: 1.0.0  
**Next Review**: January 8, 2026
